In the first version of this project, latency was tracked when sending randomly crafted packet payloads between two docker containers running Ubuntu. The 1st Docker container (Exchange) sends information into a network over UDP. Another docker container (the trader) then reads this information and sends it to a MongoDB database. The front end is built with NextJS, using TypeScript. A Rest API was built in NextJS to query the MongoDB database repeatedly, in order to load data about latency.

Version two of this tool was revised to connect with an AWS EC2 Instance while containing the same features as version 1. Version 2 employs a MongoDB status flag in order to determine the status of the system (normal/recording). On the EC2 instance, we have two services running: 1 for the monitoring of the database status flag, and another (which gets started by the monitoring process) that receives the UDP packets from the exchange docker, and "records" them into a text file. Monit is also employed to monitor whether or not this "trade logging" function is running or not. Furthermore, if the EC2 status listener process detects the system switched back to normal mode, it will stop the logging service. The packet crafting script inside of the exchange docker container was also modified so that it takes into account the status of the database status flag, and sends packets to the EC2 instance if it is set to recording, but maintains the version 1 functionality of sending packets to the trader docker if the system is in normal mode.
